<!---
Feel free to change this link if there is something more appropriate.
Do not change the anchor name.
-->

### <a name="CS125" class="anchor"></a>[CS 125: Introduction to Computer Science](https://cs125.cs.illinois.edu/info/proficiency)


* **Format**: computer-based (Java), paper (C++)
<!--- -->
* **Length**: 3 hours
<!--- -->
* **Location**: [CBTF](https://cbtf.engr.illinois.edu/)
<!--- -->
* **Date and Time**: see above for [Java](#next-cbtf) and [C++](#next)
<!--- -->
* **More Information**: is available on the [CS 125 website](https://cs125.cs.illinois.edu/info/proficiency/).

Note that there are two versions of the CS 125 proficiency exam: one with
programming questions and code reading questions in Java given in the CBTF,
and a second with them in C++ given (this fall) on paper.
<!--- -->
**If you are a CS major and want to continue to CS 126 you must take the
proficiency exam in Java.**
<!--- -->
CS 126 assumes that incoming students are familiar with Java, and students that
are not have struggled.
<!--- -->
If you are proficient in another programming language and strong enough to start
in CS 126, you should not have trouble learning enough Java to pass the
proficiency exam.

Other students may take the proficiency exam in either Java or C++ depending on
which language you are more familiar with.
<!--- -->
**However, you may still not take both in the same semester.**

#### Summer 2019 Exam Schedule

**Note that the CS 125 Proficiency Exam will be available in the Summer of 2019
for incoming freshman.**
<!--- -->
We will give a single three-hour seating in the computer-based testing center
on weekdays: Monday through Thursday from 3&ndash;6PM and Friday from
2&ndash;5PM.
<!--- -->
If you are traveling to campus to register for courses you may take the exam
during your visit.
<!--- -->
If not, you will still have an opportunity to take it at the beginning of the
Fall 2019 semester.
<!--- -->
Those dates will be posted soon.

<!--
Also note that ECE students *must* take
[ECE 220](https://ece.illinois.edu/academics/courses/profile/ECE220)
before taking CS 173 and CS 225.
**ECE students may not take the CS 125 proficiency exam and then continue to CS
173.**
-->

#### Sign-Up Process: Java Exam

Note that you must *both* schedule your exam using the CBTF scheduler and also enroll in the "
CS 125: Introduction to Computer Science, Proficiency Exam" course on PrairieLearn.

1. Log on to [the CBTF scheduling site](https://cbtf.engr.illinois.edu/sched).
<!--- -->
1. Press the "Add a class" button and add the "Proficiency Exams" course.
<!--- -->
1. Click the "CS 125" exam in the "Proficiency Exams" course and reserve a time.
<!--- -->
1. Log on to [PrairieLearn](https://prairielearn.engr.illinois.edu/) **using your `@illinois.edu` email address**.
We will not give credit to students that take the exam using a non-university email address.
<!--- -->
1. Enroll in the "CS 125: Introduction to Computer Science, Proficiency Exam" course.
<!--- -->
This is the same course with the practice problems and practice exam available publicly.
<!--- -->
Once you are in the [CBTF](https://cbtf.engr.illinois.edu) you will be able to view and complete
the official proficiency exam.
<!--- -->
1. When you visit the testing center the proficiency exam will be visible.

#### Sign-Up Process: C++ Exam

If you want to take the C++ CS 125 Proficiency Exam simply show up for one of the
two [written proficiency exam times](#next).
<!--- -->
**As a reminder, passing the C++ CS 125 Proficiency Exam does not allow you to continue
on to CS 126.**
<!--- -->
CS majors must take the Java version of the proficiency exam.
