<!---
Feel free to change this link if there is something more appropriate.
Do not change the anchor name.
-->

### <a name="CS173" class="anchor"></a>[CS 173: Discrete Structures](https://wiki.illinois.edu/wiki/display/cs173/Home)

* **Format**: computer-based, either on Moodle or PrairieLearn.
<!--- -->
* **Length**: 3 hours
<!--- -->
* **Date, Time, and Location**:  
  * TBD
  * TBD
<!--- -->
* **Zoom Links**: 
   * TBD
   * TBD

<!--- -->

#### Additional information

**The information below is from previous years and will be updated in late summer.**

Use https://us.prairielearn.com/pl/enroll to join the 'course' called "CSPX 173: Proficiency Exam for CS 173" on PrairieLearn. The exam itself may not be visible until the start time. There is no sign-up form to fill out.

You must be on the appropriate zoom session (see links above) the entire time that you are taking the exam.  If your zoom session dies during the exam, get back on as fast as possible and consult with the exam proctors.

Use the conflict exam if you miss the main exam date for any reason. Prior permission is not required.   However, it is normally better to take the exam on the earlier date, so that you will get results earlier and have an easier time adjusting your course schedule if needed.

The student code does not allow you to take the CS 173 Proficiency Exam after taking CS 374 (or a more advanced theoretical CS course).

The website for the Spring 2021 offering of CS 173 has a current set of skills lists, lecture notes, and videos. Course websites for Spring 2019 and earlier have old hardcopy exams that you can use for practice. (We have since moved the exams online.)

The exam will include some free-response questions (e.g. proofs) which are manually graded, so it will take a few days for results to be available. You are not required to use LaTeX to format your math, but you will be given a LaTeX reference sheet in case you want it.
